OSDOCS#7865: Migrating Azure DevOps with Managed OCP from MOBB to ROSA (#65072)
openshift/openshift-docs: rosa_tutorials/rosa-mobb-azure-devops-managed-ocp.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="rosa-mobb-azure-devops-managed-ocp"]
= Tutorial: Using Azure DevOps with Managed OpenShift
include::_attributes/attributes-openshift-dedicated.adoc[]
:context: rosa-mobb-azure-devops-managed-ocp

toc::[]

// ---
// date: '2023-03-14'
// title: Azure DevOps with Managed OpenShift
// tags: ["DevOps", "ADO", "Azure", "ARO", "ROSA"]
// authors:
//   - Kevin Collins
// ---

> Adopted from link:https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/hosting-an-azure-pipelines-build-agent-in-openshift[Hosting an Azure Pipelines Build Agent in OpenShift]

Reviewer: Adapted?

Author: Good catch, I'm wondering if that line should even be there in the first place haha, but in the meantime I'll make this fix

Azure DevOps is a very popular DevOps tool that has a host of features including the ability for developers to create CI/CD pipelines.

In this document, I will show you how to connect your Managed OpenShift Cluster to Azure DevOps end-to-end, including running the pipeline build process in the cluster, setting up the OpenShift internal image registry to store the images, and then finally deploying a sample application.
To demonstrate the flexibility of Azure DevOps, I will be deploying to a ROSA cluster, however the same procedures will apply if you choose to deploy to any other OCP Cluster.

== Prerequisites

* A Public Cloud subscription (Azure Subscription)
* An Azure Dev Ops instance
* An OpenShift Cluster

== Cloning the example application and configuration files

* Run the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ git clone https://github.com/rh-mobb/azure-pipelines-openshift

$ cd azure-pipelines-openshift
----

== Configuring Azure Devops

. While logged into your link:https://aex.dev.azure.com/me?mkt=en-US[Azure DevOps Organization], create a new project.
+

> The examples in this document will assume the project is named `azure-pipelines-openshift`

Reviewer 2: Consider adding ending punctuation.

+
image::ado-new-project.png[ADO New Project]

. Obtain a personal access token.
While in Azure DevOPs, select Personal Access Token under User Settings.
+
image::azpat.png[Azure Personal access tokens]

. On the next screen, create a New Token.
+
In this example, we will create a token with Full Access.
Once you click *Create* your token will be displayed.

> Make sure to store it somewhere safe as you won't be able to see it again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to store it somewhere safe as you will not be able to see it again.
```

+
image::create-pat.png[Create a new personal access token]

=== Set Azure DevOps environment variables for your Azure DevOps instance

* Set the following variables:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ AZP_URL=https://dev.azure.com/<yourOrg>
$ AZP_TOKEN=<Token you retrieved above>
$ AZP_POOL=Default
----

== Host an Azure Pipelines Build Agent in OpenShift
[NOTE]
====
This is an abbreviated version of this link:https://cloud.redhat.com/blog/hosting-an-azure-pipelines-build-agent-in-openshift[blog] by Kevin Chung and Mark Dunnett.
====

> In this step, we will configure OpenShift to build our container image leveraging Universal Base Images (UBI)

Reviewer 2: Add end punctuation.

----
$ oc get route default-route -n openshift-image-registry -o jsonpath='{.spec.host}'
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps.ado-rosa.9s68.p1.openshiftapps.com
----

. Get the cluster api endpoint:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc cluster-info
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Kubernetes control plane is running at https://api.ado-rosa.9s68.p1.openshiftapps.com:6443
----

. Record the api server URL for usage later.

=== Configure Azure DevOps service connections for the registry and OpenShift

. From Azure DevOps, click on Project settings (the gear icon), then Service Connections, and finally Create service connection.
+
image::create-service-connection.png[Create service connection button]

. Select Docker registry.
+
image::docker-registry.png[Docker Registry option]

. Enter the settings we retrieved in the previous step:
** Select Others for Docker Registry.
** Docker Registry - make sure to add `https://` in front of the hostname you retrieved.
** Docker ID - the service account you created.
** Docker Password - the service account token.
** Service connection name - enter `openshift-registry`.

> . Next, let's create another service connection for our cluster.

Reviewer 2: The contractions could hinder translation. You could just remove the "let's".
